---
created: 2023-03-06 10:59:23
updated: 2023-12-30 17:01:42
---
Hi Julian,

I have gone through Readme and Walkthrough1, the results are attached.

There seems to be an error in the part where you start to modify the basic example, you say
<*When you now revisit your web page, you will see that there is a bit more to it that will help you understand how to get things done. It has a title, sub-title and a form containing one input field with a button, and one custom button*>.
I have noted in the text, but this isn't the page loaded by the version I have, do I need to update/reload uibuilder?

I am concerned that you might think that I might be nit picking and trying to force my thoughts on you, that is not the case, you are welcome to refuse anything, I am pretty thick skinned and would not take offence.  I am just using my experience and 'thinking out loud'

I am trying to make the modifications with the not so experienced Newbie (like me!) in mind. Having written several manuals after converting 'simple' late '70s piece of equipment to run from Touch Screen interfaces and automatic recipes built from text files, I always found that you had to take simple steps to make users accept and adopt the system because 'this isn't how the machine used to work' and the following 'can't we convert it back?'.  

One way we did this was to break our manuals down into Chapters and sections.  This does appear to be harder to do on Github.  Don't show them what they don't need to know for a single lesson, it confuses them - let them want to learn with another simple step, eventually they can become 'Zen Masters' having led them down the path.  I also found that simple illustrative examples helped, in this case a simple flow for each 'Lesson' to be learnt.

I kind of get the feeling that some of the stuff in Walkthrough1 is from older versions of uibuilder not that it is, just that you say '*uibuilder v6.1 introduces new features to enable the creation of web pages dynamically without the need to code any HTML or JavaScript*', I get what you are saying, but \<pedant\>'I have just learnt all this and now you are saying I don't need it, I give up!!'\<\/pedant\>.  It might be better to add '*new features that enable* '.  Then go into the lesson.

Terminology, I think I see you have linked some words to a 'glossary'. Excellent!

A hierarchical structure seems to work when learning, at least for me, Walkthrough1, finish the page and link to the next session of learning/description, with other links that might be useful for this stage of learning.

I think a conversation might be good.  You work, I don't, so my time is not as precious.  Maybe we make a time for some form of live conversation?

