docs/README.md, before:

---
title: UIBUILDER Documentation
description: |
  UIBUILDER provides a stand-alone web server that allows for interfacing with Node-RED, while giving you help and complete freedom to create custom web interfaces.
created: 2019-06-16 16:16:00
updated: 2024-03-17 19:22:32
---

It includes many helper features that can reduce or eliminate the need to write code for building data-driven web applications and user interfaces for Node-RED.

All you need to start making use of UIBUILDER is a `uibuilder` node added to your flows. Select a suitable URL path and deploy. Then click on the "Open url" button to open the new page in a new tab.

Now you can edit the front-end html, JavaScript and CSS files. You can also send messages to your front end and send messages back to Node-RED.

UIBUILDER comes with some *templates* to give you some front-end code to get you started. Load a different template if you like, use the editor to customise the UI. Use the library manager if you need any front-end libraries or frameworks (this adds the appropriate folders to the web server so that you can access them from your UI).

UIBUILDER also comes with a number of *example flows*. These are accessed from Node-RED's "hamburger" menu, import entry. They are fully working flows that demonstrate the use of UIBUILDER.

> [!TIP]
> These are the docs for UIBUILDER v7. If you need the v6 or earlier docs, the easiest way is to set up a test instance of Node-RED and manually install the appropriate UIBUILDER version: `npm install node-red-contrib-uibuilder@5` then use the documentation links from a `uibuilder` node.

## Getting help and contributing

node-red-contrib-uibuilder is contained in a [GitHub repository](https://github.com/TotallyInformation/node-red-contrib-uibuilder) and is [published on npmjs.org](https://www.npmjs.com/package/node-red-contrib-uibuilder) for ease of installation.

Help is available in this documentation, the help sidebar in Node-RED, and the [GitHub WIKI](https://github.com/TotallyInformation/node-red-contrib-uibuilder/wiki). If you get stuck, you can also create a new topic in the [Node-RED Discourse Forum](https://discourse.nodered.org/tag/node-red-contrib-uibuilder) or in the [GitHub discussion section](https://github.com/TotallyInformation/node-red-contrib-uibuilder/discussions).

Issues occuring with UIBUILDER should be raised in the [GitHub issues log](https://github.com/TotallyInformation/node-red-contrib-uibuilder/issues) but please feel free to discuss in the Node-RED forum first if you like.

WIKI, code (PR's), documentation, and examples are all welcome contributions and I always aim to give credit to contributors. Please see the [contribution guidelines](https://github.com/TotallyInformation/node-red-contrib-uibuilder/blob/main/.github/CONTRIBUTING.md).

## Using UIBUILDER

* [A first-timers walkthough of using UIBUILDER](walkthrough1.md) - Let's get started!

* [Did you know?](did-you-know.md) - Things you might not know about UIBUILDER, hints and tips
* [Creating data-driven web apps with UIBUILDER and Node-RED](web-app-workflow.md) - Different styles and workflows you can use
* [Configuring UIBUILDER](uib-configuration.md) - Configure the UIBUILDER platform. Affects all `uibuilder` nodes
* [Standard messages](pre-defined-msgs.md) - A catalogue of messages and properties
* [Creating Templates](creating-templates) - Pre-defined and reusable front-end code, dependencies, and optional build steps
* [Browser auto-refresh](browser-refresh.md) - Automatically reload your page after a change
* [Zero-code UI creation](using/zero-code-ui.md) - Dynamically creating web UI's

## The nodes

[nodes](nodes/README.md ':include')

## Content Index

[index](.config/sidebar.md ':include')

## Additional Links

- ![uib](https://github.com/TotallyInformation/node-red-contrib-uibuilder/raw/main/front-end/images/node-blue.ico) [UIBUILDER for Node-RED](https://github.com/TotallyInformation/node-red-contrib-uibuilder)
  - ❓ [Ideas, questions & general help](https://discourse.nodered.org/tag/node-red-contrib-uibuilder) - Ask your question on the Node-RED forum using the node-red-contrib-uibuilder tag
  - 📁 [Documentation](https://totallyinformation.github.io/node-red-contrib-uibuilder) - Go to the latest documentation
  - 🧑‍💻 [Flows](https://flows.nodered.org/search?term=uibuilder) - Example flows, nodes and collections related to UIBUILDER
  - ℹ️ [WIKI](https://github.com/TotallyInformation/node-red-contrib-uibuilder/wiki) - More documentation and examples
  - 📂 [Example Svelte External Template](https://github.com/TotallyInformation/uib-template-svelte-simple) - In case you want to build your own svelte app
  - 📂 [Example Simple External Template](https://github.com/TotallyInformation/uib-template-test) - In case you want to build your own external template
  - 📊 [uPlot UIBUILDER extension](https://github.com/TotallyInformation/nr-uibuilder-uplot) - Useful charts but also demonstrates how to build your own extension
  - 🔨 [Event Handler module used by UIBUILDER](https://github.com/TotallyInformation/ti-common-event-handler) - So you can see some of the inner workings

- 🔨 [ui library module used by UIBUILDER](https://github.com/TotallyInformation/ui.js) - Can be used stand-alone for turning UI standard config JSON into HTML

- 🕜 [node-red-contrib-moment](https://github.com/TotallyInformation/node-red-contrib-moment) - Nodes to make use of the MomentJS date/time handling library in Node-RED

- 🧪 [Test Nodes for Node-RED](https://github.com/TotallyInformation/uib-template-test) - Some test nodes for Node-RED that help you understand how everything works

- 🚤 [HotNipi Gauge Web Component](https://github.com/TotallyInformation/gauge-hotnipi) - A really nice looking gauge component. Works with Node-RED, UIBUILDER, or stand-alone

- 🧪 [Experimental Web Components](https://github.com/TotallyInformation/web-components) - Have some Node-RED & UIBUILDER specific enhancements but also work well stand-alone

- 🧪 [Array Grouper](https://github.com/TotallyInformation/groupit) - Stand-alone function to reshape an array of objects

Commit message:

Tweak the entry pages to make them a bit friendlier.

docs/README.md, after:

---
title: UIBUILDER for Node-RED
description: |
  UIBUILDER provides a Node-RED integrated web server that allows for interfacing with Node-RED, while giving you help and complete freedom to create custom web interfaces.
created: 2019-06-16 16:16:00
updated: 2024-03-22 22:10:30
---

It includes many helper features that can reduce or eliminate the need to write code for building data-driven web applications and user interfaces. It utilises standard HTML/CSS and is not a framework. You can use it with a front-end framework if you like, but in many cases you won't need one.

> [!TIP]
> All you need to start making use of UIBUILDER is a `uibuilder` node added to your flows. Select a suitable URL path and deploy. Then click on the "Open url" button to open the new page in a new tab.
> 
> That's it, batteries are included!

Now you can decide how you want to build your UI. You can craft it by hand, use external editors, create configuration JSON or use one of the no-code nodes. Or even use any combination of these styles - UIBUILDER never locks you in!

Once you have some UI, you can now send and receive data messages to and from your connected browser pages and Node-RED. Using them to update the UI and get user input.

UIBUILDER comes with *templates* to give you some front-end code to get you started. Load a different template if you like, use the editor to customise the UI. Use the library manager if you need any front-end libraries or frameworks (this adds the appropriate folders to the web server so that you can access them from your UI).

UIBUILDER also comes with a number of *example flows*. These are accessed from Node-RED's "hamburger" menu, import entry. They are fully working flows that demonstrate the use of UIBUILDER.

The best way to get started is to add a uibuilder node or import one of the examples, then start playing. You will soon get the hang of it.

> [!NOTE]
> These are the docs for UIBUILDER v7. If you need the v6 or earlier docs, the easiest way is to set up a test instance of Node-RED and manually install the appropriate UIBUILDER version: `npm install node-red-contrib-uibuilder@5` then use the documentation links from a `uibuilder` node.

## Getting help and contributing

node-red-contrib-uibuilder is contained in a [GitHub repository](https://github.com/TotallyInformation/node-red-contrib-uibuilder) and is [published on npmjs.org](https://www.npmjs.com/package/node-red-contrib-uibuilder) for ease of installation.

Help is available in this documentation, the help sidebar in Node-RED, and the [GitHub WIKI](https://github.com/TotallyInformation/node-red-contrib-uibuilder/wiki). If you get stuck, you can also create a new topic in the [Node-RED Discourse Forum](https://discourse.nodered.org/tag/node-red-contrib-uibuilder) or in the [GitHub discussion section](https://github.com/TotallyInformation/node-red-contrib-uibuilder/discussions).

Issues occuring with UIBUILDER should be raised in the [GitHub issues log](https://github.com/TotallyInformation/node-red-contrib-uibuilder/issues) but please feel free to discuss in the Node-RED forum first if you like.

WIKI, code (PR's), documentation, and examples are all welcome contributions and I always aim to give credit to contributors. Please see the [contribution guidelines](https://github.com/TotallyInformation/node-red-contrib-uibuilder/blob/main/.github/CONTRIBUTING.md).

## Using UIBUILDER

* [A first-timers walkthough of using UIBUILDER](walkthrough1.md) - Let's get started!

* [Did you know?](did-you-know.md) - Things you might not know about UIBUILDER, hints and tips
* [Creating data-driven web apps with UIBUILDER and Node-RED](web-app-workflow.md) - Different styles and workflows you can use
* [Configuring UIBUILDER](uib-configuration.md) - Configure the UIBUILDER platform. Affects all `uibuilder` nodes
* [Standard messages](pre-defined-msgs.md) - A catalogue of messages and properties
* [Creating Templates](creating-templates) - Pre-defined and reusable front-end code, dependencies, and optional build steps
* [Browser auto-refresh](browser-refresh.md) - Automatically reload your page after a change
* [Zero-code UI creation](using/zero-code-ui.md) - Dynamically creating web UI's

## The nodes

[nodes](nodes/README.md ':include')

## Content Index

[index](.config/sidebar.md ':include')

## Additional Links

- ![uib](https://github.com/TotallyInformation/node-red-contrib-uibuilder/raw/main/front-end/images/node-blue.ico) [UIBUILDER for Node-RED](https://github.com/TotallyInformation/node-red-contrib-uibuilder)
  - ❓ [Ideas, questions & general help](https://discourse.nodered.org/tag/node-red-contrib-uibuilder) - Ask your question on the Node-RED forum using the node-red-contrib-uibuilder tag
  - 📁 [Documentation](https://totallyinformation.github.io/node-red-contrib-uibuilder) - Go to the latest documentation
  - 🧑‍💻 [Flows](https://flows.nodered.org/search?term=uibuilder) - Example flows, nodes and collections related to UIBUILDER
  - ℹ️ [WIKI](https://github.com/TotallyInformation/node-red-contrib-uibuilder/wiki) - More documentation and examples
  - 📂 [Example Svelte External Template](https://github.com/TotallyInformation/uib-template-svelte-simple) - In case you want to build your own svelte app
  - 📂 [Example Simple External Template](https://github.com/TotallyInformation/uib-template-test) - In case you want to build your own external template
  - 📊 [uPlot UIBUILDER extension](https://github.com/TotallyInformation/nr-uibuilder-uplot) - Useful charts but also demonstrates how to build your own extension
  - 🔨 [Event Handler module used by UIBUILDER](https://github.com/TotallyInformation/ti-common-event-handler) - So you can see some of the inner workings

- 🔨 [ui library module used by UIBUILDER](https://github.com/TotallyInformation/ui.js) - Can be used stand-alone for turning UI standard config JSON into HTML

- 🕜 [node-red-contrib-moment](https://github.com/TotallyInformation/node-red-contrib-moment) - Nodes to make use of the MomentJS date/time handling library in Node-RED

- 🧪 [Test Nodes for Node-RED](https://github.com/TotallyInformation/uib-template-test) - Some test nodes for Node-RED that help you understand how everything works

- 🚤 [HotNipi Gauge Web Component](https://github.com/TotallyInformation/gauge-hotnipi) - A really nice looking gauge component. Works with Node-RED, UIBUILDER, or stand-alone

- 🧪 [Experimental Web Components](https://github.com/TotallyInformation/web-components) - Have some Node-RED & UIBUILDER specific enhancements but also work well stand-alone

- 🧪 [Array Grouper](https://github.com/TotallyInformation/groupit) - Stand-alone function to reshape an array of objects
